# Gaussian Mixture Identifiability from degree-6 moments

This repository accompanies the arxiv submission [Gaussian Mixture Identifiability from degree-6 moments](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03850). It contains code and data from numerical experiments, and parts of proofs that were verified on a computer, as well as the code that was used to generate the plots.

The repository is organized as follows: 

+ **tangential-contact-locus:** 
    Accompanies Section 3 of the paper. Contains the computer proof that the Gaussian moment variety in 2 variables has nondegenerate Gauss map. The `.csv` files in the folder are generated by the notebook `contact-locus-generate-sys.ipynb`, which creates a system of polynomial equations for the tangential contact locus of the Gaussian moment variety at the given point $(Y, X^2)$ (cf. Section 2 of the paper). The notebook  `contact-locus-check-dim.ipynb` may then be used to compute the local dimension of said tangential contact locus at $(Y, X^2)$. From the equations, it creates a matrix of normal vectors to the variety, then performs an SVD on the matrix. The multiplicity of zero as a singular value is thus the local dimension of the tangential contact locus. We verify for $d = 5,\ldots,9$ that this dimension is 1, as expected. One also needs to verify that the tangent map is regular at $(Y, X^2)$. This is done in the notebook `gaussian-tangent-at-rank-1.ipynb` within the folder `tangent-regularity`.     
+ **secant-dimensions:** 
    Accompanies Section 5 of the paper. Calculates the dimensions of secant varieties to the Gaussian moment variety $\mathrm{GM}_d(\mathbb C^n)$ for the first values of $n$ and $d=4,5,6$. Subfolders:
    - code
    - data 
    - plots
